-Oh Mr. Vaughns dad's not well,
so they've gone to stay
with him for a couple of days.
-Oh, doesn't mind.
Mom's on a split shift.
We'll have a laugh.
-Sorry it's already been
arranged between his social
worker and my parents.
-Since when did a social worker
tell Rhydian what he
can or can't do?
-Yeah, well, I mean they're
expecting me now.
Maybe another time.
Sorry Mate.
See you tomorrow?
-Did you buy all that?
-What?
-Duh.
-Oh, don't start, Tom.
-Shannon, don't take this the
wrong way, but you're not
really an expert on
the whole boy-girl
flirting thing, are you?
-Oh, and you are?
-Well, he was all over her
after we saw that beast.
What I'm saying is, either her
parents won't be there or they
won't, at least for four
or five hours anyway.
-Just drop it, Tom.
There is nothing going on
with Maddy and Rhydian.
THEME SONG: A promise that I
keep, I'll never share, I'll
never speak.
To my grave the secret goes.
The beating heart, the
beating heart.
Where mystic creatures
wandered far.
Through these veins
a wolfblood flows.
-Living near humans
is always a risk.
-That's why we keep
our heads down?
-We'll live out here.
-It's all about responsibility.
-Being a wolfblood affects
everything.
-Well, that sounded
like a hermit.
-No, no, no, no.
It's all about seeming normal.
-OK, we get it.
Stop nagging.
-I mean, that's great, but your
family's owned this place
for centuries.
I don't think I could afford a
country mansion on my weekly
allowance.
-Well, you've got a talent.
Yeah, wolfbloods generally do.
-Yeah, an artist or an
illustrator can live and work
wherever they like.
-As long as there's a dungeon
in the cellar.
-It's not a dungeon.
-It's a precaution.
Think of it as a rite
of passage.
-Yeah, like an initiation into
our pack, because deep down
that's what you really
want, being a pack.
All wolfbloods do.
It's greater than the
instinct to be free.
-And there's no freedom without
responsibility.
Not in the human world anyway.
-Look, the full moon's
not till tomorrow.
If you don't want to sleep
down here tonight--
-Maddy!
-Mum, it's his choice.
-It's OK.
I need to learn.
I won't let you down.
-Well, we never thought
you would.
-Can you smell something?
-No.
Did the army come up here
to train or something?
-I don't think so.
Rhydian.
-Just having a look.
-Sinclair.
Why would anyone hide Sinclair
gear in the woods?
-Because it's nicked or fake.
-It looks pretty real to me.
-How would you know.
You can't afford Sinclair.
-Like you've got a
wardrobe full.
-I have now.
-Rhydian, we can't just
help ourselves.
-Why not?
-Uh, because we're supposed to
be keeping our heads down.
Being responsible.
-So what?
We call the police, yes officer,
we were running four
miles to school as you do on
the day of a full moon.
-Taking from thieves isn't
really stealing, is it?
-Exactly.
-In fact, we just punishing them
for doing it in the first
place.
-You can't get more responsible
than that.
-We've got a present for you.
-Sinclair.
You're going to be the best
dressed girl in school.
-Where did you get these?
-Ask no questions,
hear no lies.
-I told you they're
up to something.
I mean, I just--
-We know what you mean.
-Do we?
-Tom still thinks we
have, you know.
-Still.
-No, no, no.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, and I was wrong.
OK?
-Apology accepted.
-In that case, ta, thank
you very much.
-Go on then, Shannon.
-No, I'm sorry Mads, but all
these designer labels.
They're just sweat shops.
-Well, yeah, but I'm
sure this isn't.
-I'd rather wear ethically
produced stuff and support
smaller companies, you know,
and it's better planet.
I'm sorry.
It was really nice of you.
-No, no, you're right.
I wouldn't want to spoil
Shannon's style.
-Sinclair.
-Where did you losers
get that?
-How could you afford it?
-Well, it was a prezzy for
Shannon, but it turns out it's
not really her thing.
-[IN UNISON] I want it.
-Whoa.
-I'll give you 20 quid.
23 pounds.
-24.50.
-I'll give you 35 if you wait
till the end of the week.
-30 cash.
-Sold to the woman
in the blue.
-I was going to the
hairdresser's after school.
And this is way cooler
than a haircut.
-Have
you got -No.
That, that was the last one.
-If you do get any more, we'll
pay what she paid.
-OK.
-Come on, old boy, we all know
you stole that Sinclair stuff.
-Sorry, Jimmy, none left.
Can't help you.
-Me?
I don't buy stolen goods.
What am I, poor?
-No.
-I thought you could help
these two dorks.
-Hey.
I mean, have you seen
the way they dress?
Market store knockoffs, jumpers
knit by Liam's gran.
-You can't give back a present
from your nan.
-Football team's got a
tournament next month,
professional players giving
master classes.
There's a dinner on
the last night.
I have to sit next to
these two losers.
Now, if you could
kit them out.
-Maybe I could lay my hands
on a few things.
-That would be brilliant.
-Yeah, great, but we can't
pay what Kara paid.
-Yeah.
Mates rates, right?
-Lads, I'm sorry, but I've
got overheads to cover.
I mean, this is a business.
I can't just hand out discounts
to anyone that asks.
-See, that's how a real
businessman behaves.
Watch and learn.
-But we can't afford it.
-That's the problem with you
two, you lack initiative.
And if you are going to dress
like dorks, stand
further away from me.
-And a hoodie, right.
Remember color and size
are not guaranteed.
-You can't do this.
-Of course I can.
I'm just finding what
time to fill my bag.
-Unless you get caught by a
teacher, or the thieves coming
back for their stuff.
-Do you remember what
your dad said?
Wolfbloods have limited
options.
You're all right with your big
old house and your money.
-I'm not as rich as you think.
-I'm a wolfblood in
the care system.
I have to think about
my future.
If my first step is making money
out of teenage fashion
victims, that is fine by me.
-Fine.
But when it all goes wrong,
don't expect me to
sort out your mess.
-If someone catches us--
-Stop whining, and keep watch.
-What if Tom finds out?
-Stolen goods, stupid.
What's he going to do,
call the police?
-Rhydian's coming.
-What are you two looking
so guilty about?
Don't know what you're
talking about.
-Nothing.
[camera clicking]
Where's he getting
this stuff from?
-He's going to get into
real trouble.
I'll talk to him.
-That's all gone.
Sorry.
-Look, you've had your fun.
Just quit while you're ahead.
-I offered you a cut.
You said no.
-This isn't about the money.
Have you forgotten what
day it is today?
You can't afford to
take these risks.
-You were happy to take
stuff this morning.
-Yeah, because I was overexcited
and stupid.
But now I've got control of
myself, which is what you need
to do, because when this all
blows up in your face, we're
not going to be around
to help.
-I don't need your help.
All right, I've got one
last girl's t-shirt.
Anybody?
The highest bidder.
[interposing voices]
-20.
Uh, 30, anybody?
30?
40, maybe.
40.
50.
So it's at 50.
60.
I got 60.
Anyone got 60?
-Right.
Before we get started, we've
had a call from the police.
And they have reason to believe
that someone is
selling stolen property
on school premises.
Specifically, Sinclair
designer clothing.
Does anyone in this class know
anything about that?
And for once, we have complete
and utter silence.
All right, come on.
Open your textbooks.
Page 47.
-I'm so glad I had more sense
than to get involved in this.
What?
The police what?
But we haven't done anything.
-I'll decide that.
Follow me.
-I just wanted to know where
you got these items from?
-Why, sir?
Do you want some?
-What?
-They'll never go
with your eyes.
By mail order.
-So you have a receipt
or some paperwork?
-Doubt it.
My mummy tidied my room.
I throwed all the package in.
-I bet you don't have receipts
for what you're
wearing today, sir.
It doesn't mean it's stolen.
-Do Oxfam even do receipts?
I'm not being funny, sir.
But do you have proof there are
stolen goods in school?
-The police.
They believe--
-You would love starting
rumors, and having the
teachers run around
in circles.
You remember when they said
there's an escaped pony on the
playground, sir?
-Trina, that actually
happened.
It kicked Jimi, remember?
-Oh, yeah.
Sometimes I love school.
-Please just stick
to the subject.
-I'm not sure there
is a subject, sir.
There's no proof there is any
stolen goods in school.
You can't prove we didn't
buy those legitimately.
And as much as I hate
to remind you,
we're missing French.
-Go now.
-You flog on my story
forget it.
-I've come to say thanks
for not turning me in.
-Whatever.
-Exactly how grateful are you,
because I've still got that
hairdresser's appointment
booked, and Katrina's saving
for new shoes.
-You want your money back.
-And we keep the t-shirts.
-No way.
-Thought you were grateful.
-I thought you were
a gentleman.
-I thought you wanted to make
sure that no one accidentally
said anything.
Especially to Jeffries.
Pleasure doing business
with you.
-Happy now?
-Not really.
But if it makes you realize how
much of a risk you took.
-Yeah, well, I won't
be taking anymore.
-Better think about that again,
because we can still
tell Jeffries what's
been going on.
-Two against one.
He'd believe us.
-What do you want?
-These, one each, for free.
-What if I can't get them?
Then,
-Then, I suppose you're
going to prison.
-We'll tell Jeffries Rhydian
had nothing to do with it.
You can't prove anything.
-All we have to do is name
everyone Rhydian sold to.
Someone will crack.
-If I get you each one of
these, it's over, right?
-You can't trust these two.
Oy.
-What other choice do I have?
Meet me at Bernie's at 4:30.
-See, now you're thinking
like a businessman.
-And don't be late.
-Rhydian, you can't,
not tonight.
-We've got hours
until moonrise.
Just come with me
to your parents.
Look, I'm going to get these.
I'll meet Sam and Liam.
And then I'll be back at
yours before dinner.
-And I'm just supposed to
trust that you'll there.
-I'll be there.
I promise.
It's just a couple of hoodies.
What could go wrong?
-Police!
Stop where you are.
-Grab him.
-And these jeans will
go lovely with it.
-Bernie?
-Hi.
-Evening girls.
I see you like Sinclair.
-Who wants to know?
-Detective Inspector Bolton.
Where did you get
the t-shirts?
[interposing voices]
-So you didn't buy them
from somebody in the
street or at school?
-There, we're done.
-I don't know what you mean.
You've got the wrong people.
-I don't even know
who you are.
-So will this be enough
for the night?
-Well, given the lack
of meat in Rhydian's
diet, probably not.
I'll get it.
-If that's Rhydian, tell
him to hurry up.
-Hello.
-Maddy, it's me.
-Hi, Tom, what's up?
-It's Rhydian.
-What's going on?
Rhydian's been arrested.
-Charge?
Handling stolen property.
-Name.
You do know we can keep you
locked up until you
tell us, don't you?
Fine.
-It's unbelievable stupidity.
-Tell him, not me.
-You took things as well.
-We'll deal with that
in a minute.
Right now we've got to get him
out of here, and we don't have
long to do it.
-Hi.
-We're here to pick
up Rhydian Morris.
-Young lad, is he?
That's right.
He wouldn't give us his name.
It's a good thing
you turned up.
We've had to keep
him all night.
The lad's parents are here.
-No, we're not his parents.
-He means Rhydian's
in foster care.
We're his foster family.
-That's right.
Mr. and Mrs. Vaughn.
-Right, well, just
take a seat.
Detective Bolton will be with
you just as soon as he's
ready, which might
be some time.
-All right.
We've got Mr. Vaughn here.
We can get on with this.
Oh, hi Mr. Vaughn.
I'm sorry.
-You will be young man.
-Interview with Rhydian Morris
commencing 18:20 on Tuesday,
the 9th of May.
present D. I. Bolton.
-Don't worry.
It'll be OK.
-You know we can never draw
attention to ourselves.
-Fine.
We shouldn't have done it.
I know.
But if it was left you we'd
never do anything.
We'd go nowhere, do nothing,
get boring jobs and live
boring lives.
-We are trying to
keep you safe.
-There's more to life
than being man safe.
-Well, let's just see
if you're still
saying that at moonrise.
We've got less than an hour.
-Here.
Any of these men perhaps?
-I didn't see anyone there.
I thought the stuff
was abandoned.
-Look, Inspector, Rhydian
found what he
thought was lost property.
-Lost property.
And he made a stupid decision,
which I think
he now deeply regrets.
-Yeah.
Absolutely.
-He clearly wasn't involved
in the actual robbery.
And I assure you, he will be
punished for what he's done.
So if we could just say--
-It's not that simple
Mr. Vaughn.
Rhydian helped himself to
something that wasn't his.
We have surveillance
photographs.
-Surely, you can't--
But you can't.
He's just a kid.
-Mr. Vaughn, you and I need
to have a word in private.
Sergeant Ashford, Mr.
Morris is ready to
go back to his cell.
We're not going to charge
Rhydian with anything.
-Really?
Wonderful.
Let's sign the paperwork.
I'll get him off your hands.
-Not so fast, sir.
Lads with a bad attitude,
they need to
learn to respect authority.
-Of course, I'll make sure
he learns his lesson.
-No, the law says we can hold
him for another 10 hours
without charge.
And I find when a lad spends a
night in a cell, he comes out
in no hurry to break
the law again.
It's tough love, Mr. Vaughn.
And sometimes a child needs
to be shocked into
changing their behavior.
It's all right for you.
It's me that has to
do the paperwork.
-Yeah, it's bad news
I'm afraid.
-They're keeping
him overnight.
-They can't.
They can't.
-Hang on, Dan.
If you run now, you can
make it to the mall.
-And leave you?
-Rhydian's going to be in that
cell when the moon rises.
At least you can get away.
-That's it.
You can get Rhydian out of
there, dad, if you tell them
what will happen if you don't.
-What?
-You need to tell them.
-I suggest you take your family
home, and come back for
this one in the morning
I assure you.
-Very well, but there's
something
that you need to know.
Rhydian from a psychological
condition known as clinical
lycanthropy.
-He thinks he's a werewolf.
-Exactly.
It's a recognized psychological
condition.
Every full moon he gets
distressed even
uncontrollable, and I'm not
talking about behavior.
I mean, serious physical
symptoms.
-All right, all right.
If you don't believe me, you can
talk to his psychiatrist.
-[aaahhh]
[grrrr]
-Panic attacks.
Animal behavior.
Growling.
-[grrrr]
-Snarling.
Scratching at the door
trying to get out.
-[grrrr]
-I really don't--
-Rhydian is in your custody.
And now that you understand
the full context of his
behavior, if he comes
to any harm in that
room, it's your fault.
-Inspector Bolton.
-Please, release him into
my care before he
does any real harm.
-Winding himself up when
the moon's rising.
What if he loses control
for real?
-He'll do that even if
we don't get him out.
-[howling]
-Hurry up.
Hurry up.
[growling]
-That's it.
I want him out of my
cell right now.
-Hang on.
-We're not going to charge
him, so let's get him out
before he hurts himself, and
we end up with an official
investigation.
-All right, take him home.
-My pleasure.
Come on.
-Take the road through
the woods.
-But it's longer.
-We're not going to make
it home anyway.
-But we can't.
I mean, not out in the open.
-But we don't have any choice
unless you can drive a car
with your paws.
Get us into the woods now.
-We should do that
again next month.
-Not a chance.
-But they loved the idea,
you can tell.
-I don't think it would
make any difference.
-So what happened?
-Nothing.
-Nothing?
-They let me go.
-No charge?
-No charge, no drama,
no nothing.
We just went home.
Thanks for showing
your concern.
It's nice to know you
care so much.
-How did he get away
with that?
[theme music]